Farber/pcx 7781 cipa lp 2 (#10199)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/email-security/_partials/_reference-detect-phish.md

---
_build:
  publishResources: false
  render: never
  list: never
---

Area 1 uses a variety of factors to determine whether a given email message, a web domain or URL, or specific network traffic is part of a phishing campaign (marked with a `Malicious` [disposition](/email-security/reference/dispositions-and-attributes/)) or other common campaigns (for example, `Spam`).

These small pattern assessments are dynamic in nature and — in many cases — no single one in and of itself will determine the final verdict. Instead, our automated systems uses a combination of factors and non-factors to clearly distinguish between a valid phishing campaign and benign traffic.

## IP reputation

IP reputation is just one of many factors to consider but is not consistently accurate due to the dynamic nature of phishing campaigns.

For example, a particular sender IP in a Comcast range might have a mix of good and bad reputation. Flagging it purely on IP would subject a larger chunk of Comcast's IP address range to detections, which could lead to false positives.

## Sample attack types and detections

| Attack type | Example | Detections applied |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | Malicious payload attached to the message | Classic campaign technique, which utilizes a variety of active attachment types (EXE, DOC, XLS, PPT, OLE, PDF, and more) as the malicious payload for ransomware attacks, Trojans, viruses, and malware. | Machine learning (ML) models on binary bitmaps of the payload as well as higher-level attributes of the payload, with specific focus on signatureless detections for maximum coverage. Additionally, for relevant active payloads, the engine invokes a real-time sandbox to assess behavior and determine maliciousness. |

Reviewer: don't need the comma before which

| Domain proximity attacks | Campaigns taking advantage of domain similarity to confuse the end user (for example, `sampledoma1n.com` or `sampledomaln.com` compared to `sampledomain.com`). | Header mismatches, email authentication assessments, and sender reputation analysis. |
| Email Auth violations  | Campaigns taking advantage of incorrect or invalid sender Auth records (SPF/DKIM/DMARC) and bypassing incoming Auth-based controls. | Assessment of sender authentication records against published SPF/DKIM/DMARC records which is applied in combination with overall message attributes. |
| Name Spoof Attacks / Executive Attacks [(BEC)](/email-security/email-configuration/enhanced-detections/business-email-compromise/) | Campaigns targeting executives and high-value targets within the organization or using the high-value targets as sources to attack other employees within the organization. | Display names compared with known executive names for similarity using several matching models including the Levenshtein Algorithm, and if matched, flagged when sender is originating from an unknown domain. |

> | Fileless / Linkless campaigns [(BEC)](/email-security/email-configuration/enhanced-detections/business-email-compromise/)  | Typically BEC campaigns with an offline CTA (call me, wire money, invoice, or others). | Message lexical analysis, subject analysis, word count assessments, and sender analysis. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Fileless / Linkless campaigns [(BEC)](/email-security/email-configuration/enhanced-detections/business-email-compromise/)  | Typically BEC campaigns with an offline call to action (call me, wire money, invoice, or others). | Message lexical analysis, subject analysis, word count assessments, and sender analysis. |
```
Since we're not using (or defining) the acronym in this page.
